## Conduct analysis on your client's transaction dataset and identify customer purchasing behaviours to generate insights and provide commercial recommendations
## Quantium has had a data partnership with a large supermarket brand for the last few years who provide transactional and customer data. You are an analyst within the Quantium analytics team and are responsible for delivering highly valued data analytics and insights to help the business make strategic decisions.Supermarkets will regularly change their store layouts, product selections, prices and promotions. This is to satisfy their customer’s changing needs and preferences, keep up with the increasing competition in the market or to capitalise on new opportunities. The Quantium analytics team are engaged in these processes to evaluate and analyse the performance of change and recommend whether it has been successful.
## You are part of Quantium’s retail analytics team and have been approached by your client, the Category Manager for Chips, who wants to better understand the types of customers who purchase Chips and their purchasing behaviour within the region. The insights from your analysis will feed into the supermarket’s strategic plan for the chip category in the next half year. You have received the following email from your manager, Zilinka.
## 'Hi, Welcome again to the team, we love having new graduates join us! I just wanted to send a quick follow up from our conversation earlier with a few pointers around the key areas of this task to make sure we set you up for success. Below I have outlined your main tasks along with what we should be looking for in the data for each. Examine transaction data – look for inconsistencies, missing data across the data set, outliers, correctly identified category items, numeric data across all tables. If you determine any anomalies make the necessary changes in the dataset and save it. Having clean data will help when it comes to your analysis. Examine customer data – check for similar issues in the customer data, look for nulls and when you are happy merge the transaction and customer data together so it’s ready for the analysis ensuring you save your files along the way. Data analysis and customer segments – in your analysis make sure you define the metrics – look at total sales, drivers of sales, where the highest sales are coming from etc. Explore the data, create charts and graphs as well as noting any interesting trends and/or insights you find. These will all form part of our report to Julia. Deep dive into customer segments – define your recommendation from your insights, determine which segments we should be targeting, if packet sizes are relative and form an overall conclusion based on your analysis.
## Libraries used
### pandas
### numpy
### matplotlib
### seaborn
